Are you interested in contributing to Django? There is an amazing mentorship program that
helps Python and Django enthusiasts become contributors and potentially core developers
of Django. It's called Djangonauts and their slogan is where contributors launch. On this
episode, we have Sarah Boyce from the Django team and former Django knot and now Django
knot mentor to Shara Gupta. Not only is this project excellent for the Django community,
many open source communities would do well to keep an eye on how this creative project
is going. This is talk Python to me episode 451 recorded January 10 2024.
Welcome to talk Python to me a weekly podcast on Python. This is your host Michael Kennedy.
Follow me on mastodon where I'm at m Kennedy and follow the podcast using at talk Python
both on boss to dawn.org. Keep up with the show and listen to over seven years of past
episodes at talk by thon.fm. We've started streaming most of our episodes live on YouTube.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel over at talk python.fm slash YouTube to get notified about
upcoming shows and be part of that episode. This episode is sponsored by Neo4j. It's time
to stop asking relational databases to do more than they were made for and simplify
complex data models with graphs. Check out the sample FastAPI project and see what Neo4j
native graph database can do for you. Find out more at talk Python.fm slash Neo4j and
it's brought to you by posit connect from the makers of shiny, publish, share and deploy
all of your data projects that you're creating using Python streamlet dash shiny bokeh fast
API flask quarto reports, dashboards and API's. posit connect supports all of them. Try posit
connect for free by going to talk python.fm slash posit POS it.
Hello, hello. Hey, Sarah. Hey, Tushar. Welcome to talk Python to me. So good to have you
both on the show. You know, when I saw the Djangonauts project, I think it was Brian
Okken that had found it and started talking about on Python bytes initially. I'm like,
oh, that is a brilliant idea. I definitely, definitely need to talk to the people behind
it. So, so glad to have you both here. You both are playing multiple roles in this whole
process, which is fantastic. So excited to dive into the Djangonauts.
Amazing. I actually remember when that came up and we were all got excited and we're like,
how on earth did they find it?
That entire show is just about finding stuff that's interesting like that, that maybe doesn't
get a light shown on it and shining that light. So awesome. Glad, happy we're able to do it.
And we'll do it a little bit more today. We'll, we'll make it the whole topic. How's that?
Awesome. Yeah, indeed. Now, before we dive into all that, let's just start with your
story and what, how do you do the programming? What do you do these days, Sarah? Let's start
with you.
Okay. Yeah. So I am a Django developer. That's probably not surprising. I've been doing that
pretty much my entire developer career. It's about five years and about a year, two years
ago, I started getting involved in open source contributions to Django core. And now I'm
part of the review and triage team, which is a fancy name for saying like active core
Django contributor group or something like that. And yeah, why I'm here today is now
we've got the mentorship program that I co-organize.
Yeah. It's amazing. What kind of apps do you work on? Have you worked on in Django? Like,
how are you building APIs or what are you building?
Yeah. Good question. So originally I was pretty much full stack Django experience with Django
templates and then I changed companies and then it was with a react front end and a Django
rest framework API backend, which is perhaps quite a typical setup really. And I've changed
again and now I'm a developer advocate for JetBrains. So I no longer have to maintain
a web application. So yeah, that's me.
Yeah. The dev relationship can't go down at night, right? You're not going to get woken
up on a weekend because somebody upgraded the database and now your app doesn't work
anymore. Now I'm a huge fan of JetBrains and what they're doing. That must be a fun place
to work I imagine. Yeah, indeed.
Tushar, how about you?
Hi everyone. So I'm Tushar Gupta. I'm from India and I have recently graduated. I graduated
in 2023. So that was my first undergrad course. And I currently work as a software engineer
at Samagra Governance and where we deal with problems related to Indian governments. So
we work alongside with the Indian government and create solutions that helps them govern
better. That's my day job. And I've been involved with open source from my sophomore year. That
was the place like I was quite shocked seeing, wow, there are people who are there to help
you for free and you get so high quality code reviews just for free. So like, yeah, it was
a full package for me. And I got into some fellowships and one of the fellowships, I'm
not sure if you've heard of it, was Major League Hacking. They ran a fellowship and
in there I got introduced to Django and to Carlton as well. And I think from there only
Django Nodes got me as one of the contributors trying to get into the code and they reached
out for the pilot program. So yeah, that's me. And now I'm here.
Oh, wonderful. So you said you just recently started working as a software developer professionally.
Is that right? Yeah. How are you liking it?
I think it's pretty good. I've been always amazed with how much I can do with my laptop.
And now that you have a job, which also kind of create, lets you create some real impact.
I can literally see students in public schools using our apps, using our APIs to get better
at their normal courses. So yeah, it's been a complete amazing experience.
It's definitely fun. I think the hardest part about software development is getting your
first job. And once you have a little bit of credibility and experience, then it's,
you know, then it's kind of chasing what you're interested in. But yeah, congratulations.
That's excellent. Let's dive in. Let's blast off. Huh? Let's blast off with the Django
Nodes, right? And you really have leaned into this space and astronaut angle here. The website
is django-node.space. We have navigators and captains and Django Nodes and so on. So yeah,
very fun, very playful, I think. And that's on one hand, it's like, whatever, what difference
does it make? On the other, I think it makes a difference, right? Especially for people
who are getting more into programming, like it should sound fun because it is fun. But
you know, I think it just, it draws people in. It certainly did me when I heard about
it, like I said. Awesome. Yeah. So Sarah, let's, I'll let you introduce this whole program.
It's pretty neat. Tell us about it. There's been a need for more mentorship within the
Django kind of open source community for some time. And we have already participated in
some other programs like the Major League Hacking and Google Summer of Code. But sometimes
we don't always retain people. We have variable success. And there are still a bunch of people
who appear in our like help channels. And they're always like, oh, I'm interested in
mentorship. Please help me. How do I get started, etc. And it felt like there could be more
that we could be doing there. This topic of we need a mentorship program, we need a mentorship
program came up a number of times. And eventually, we launched Django.space as our answer to
that kind of need. We took heavy inspiration from the Kubernetes ladder program. So the
Kubernetes community or it also has their own contributor mentorship program. And that
had like the concept of cohorts, for example, which we've very much borrowed and things
like this. So what we wanted to do was to design something that could be quite lightweight
and sustainable, as we want to respect everybody's time that's involved and kind of appreciate
that the open source experience is a little bit in and out. And you will. And that's kind
of normal also. So anyway, what we're kind of iterating on is we now have a eight week
program, which actually the next program starts on Monday. So we're just about getting everybody
excited and together for that right now. And in the program, we have Djangonauts. This
is our term for mentees, like the participants of the program, and they will be assigned
a navigator in like a team. So there's about a team of three mentees or Djangonauts with
one navigator. The navigator is a person who has open source contributor experience and
some kind of background that they can use to like answer questions and all this kind
of stuff. Do they have to be a Django core developer or do you have to be even a contributor
to Django or do they, you know, if I was saying I worked on flask and I was really awesome
at it, but, but I also want to help these folks over here. I'm really good at open source,
but not so much Django contributor yet. So we have expanded the program. So in the pilot,
it was originally just Django core that we were focusing on. And now we have a navigators
that have a focus on other packages. So for example, Tim Schilling is one of the maintainers
of Django debug toolbar. And Mark Walker is, I think he's the tech lead of Django CMS.
And so we are kind of incorporating that we want to build a contributor base to the Django
ecosystem as a whole, because all of the packages really do help him and support Django. It's
part of the real core value of Django as a framework is, is the other open source packages
that are around it. And who knows whether we will expand even further later on. But
I think really the thing that's, that's key is having a little bit of open source experience.
And to be honest, a lot of it is transferable. So a little bit around etiquette for reviews,
like don't @ people all the time and all this kind of stuff. Things like that. We then have
one other role, which is the, the captain and they add another layer of support to the
program. So these are kind of like a supportive pastoral role and they have more one-to-one
sessions with the Django notes to get to know them, check that they're okay. And if there
was anything that kind of they wanted to talk about, but they didn't feel comfortable mentioning
it in a larger group. So we do have a discord chat and we also have these weekly check-ins
that they have with the navigators and the team, but the captains one-to-one, if you've
got something that you, perhaps you've been really poorly and you want to talk about that
and anything that comes up in life that perhaps you didn't feel comfortable announcing to
the world.
Yeah, sure.
Can come up in with your captain. So they're really there to also normalize any of the
anxieties or feelings that you have around working in public, because if this is the
first time you're doing that, it's, it's also a little bit vulnerable. So yeah. Also shout
out to the captains.
Yeah. Awesome. I think that's a pretty powerful way to organize this, right? You've got a
lot of support. The thing that strikes me about this is it feels a little bit like a
bootcamp, right? Like a coding bootcamp. I'm, I'm going to just take the next three months
off and dive into this, but way more lightweight than that. And also I think for other people
who might be thinking that it's worth pointing out that the goal is not to teach people how
to Django, right?
Yes. A hundred percent.
Yeah. Tushar, you want to add to that as well? You're shaking your head there.
Yeah. So Django.NET is not a bootcamp. I think we have, we have been getting a lot of questions
around that as well, that whether it's a bootcamp, whether someone will be taught how to Django,
but it's not like that. It's a, you can think of it as a program which gives you the right
support, right people and right resources in case if you want to contribute to the core
Django or the Django ecosystem. So it kinds of brings in all the right people together
for a short time so that you can get the needed lift off that you want and get started with
the Django.
I guess the mental model people should have is primarily the goal here is to increase
the contributors to maybe Django. Maybe as you mentioned, Sarah, a little bit broader,
like maybe you could contribute to Tim's project, the Django debug toolbar, just don't leave
it on in production. And, and those types of things, right? Like in the broader ecosystem,
bringing people in to contribute to Django more broadly. So it's specifically about treating
people who make those contributions rather than saying, I heard that programming is cool,
so I'm going to quit my marketing job and do that.
Exactly. And a thing that, cause what is success? It's such an interesting question because
we get random commits from people all the time. And really what it's not necessarily
that there aren't going to be contributors to Django. Django is quite a big package.
People will always come and suggest things and, and give some, some code. It's more also
around that Django has a community behind it. And the people who stick around longer
term, they feel like they're part of that community and that they're part of something
a little bit bigger than just a commit in this cold, heartless code base that's somewhere.
And so if we can get people to feel like actually there are a bunch of real, very helpful people
who are working on Django and other packages around it, and that you could interact with
these people. And a lot of them are now my friends. It kind of is trying to show that
there's a lot more to it and there's this value you can keep getting. And hopefully
then people will stick around. And I think it's more the, if you can stick around and
do sustainable contributions over a longer period of time, that builds up to something
really quite huge. And I think for me that, that I find that really exciting.
Yeah. To me, Django more than almost any other sub community of a programming world, not
Python itself, but you know, versus, you know, Flask, Lightstar, whatever other web frameworks,
ORMs, whatever it, it seems really to build a community around it and not just technical
excellence, right? Like Django has a lot of technical attributes that people are attracted
to. I would, a lot of the Django people I talked to are attracted because of the community
and the support and, and they just want to be part of that thing. That's amazing.
Yeah. I think you can see that in the Django Nod program itself. When I first got in, I
thought like meeting all the core contributors face to face, having chats with them and seeing
problems that they face, managing open source and then the, then their actual job and then
the Django contributions. And now there's a program. So I can see how much they're putting
into what's maintaining and building this community and how much they care about it.
So it gives you a good inclusive feeling as well. And I found it really good.
Yeah. This portion of talk Python to me is brought to you by Neo4j. Do you know Neo4j?
Neo4j is a native graph database. And if the slowest part of your data access patterns
involves computing relationships, why not use a database that stores those relationships
directly in the database? Unlike your typical relational one, a graph database lets you
model the data, the way it looks in the real world, instead of forcing it into rows and
columns, it's time to stop asking a relational database to do more than they were made for
and simplify complex data models with graphs. If you haven't used a graph database before,
you might be wondering about common use cases. What's it for? Here are just a few detecting
fraud, enhancing AI, managing supply chains, gaining a 360 degree view of your data and
anywhere else you have highly connected data to use Neo4j from Python. It's a simple pip
install Neo4j. And to help you get started, their docs include a sample web app demonstrating
how to use it both from Flask and FastAPI. Find it in their docs or search GitHub for
Neo4j movies application quick start. Developers are solving some of the world's biggest problems
with graphs. Now it's your turn. Visit talkpython.fm/neo4j to get started. That's talkpython.fm/neo4j.
Thank you to Neo4j for supporting Talk Python To Me. I'm sorry if I'm leaving some community
out that I just don't know, but the only other part of Python that I feel really has it as
nailed as that is the SciPy space. It seems like the Jupiter and the scientific computing
side, there's kind of a big community there. You've got NumFocus that actually funds a
lot of that specifically in that area, but it's pretty unique. Speaking about funding,
I don't see a pricing on your page here. What's the price?
Oh, I wasn't prepared enough for this question. Okay. Right. So, okay. If we compared ourselves
to Outreachy or Google Summer of Codes, they do actually have a sponsorship where they
do pay the, it's almost like a scholarship that you're going to work on.
Right. Like an internship almost type thing. Yeah.
Exactly.
A little. Yeah. Okay.
So we have that money. We have been very generously given a grant from the Django Software Foundation
to help us grow this program. And we will be using that in different places in order
to do that. But at some point we'd like to sponsorship from companies. So if you're listening
and that's something that you think would be a good idea, then, you know, please get
in touch with the organizers. That would be awesome.
Yeah. Sarah, you should go on a podcast and let the companies know.
Yeah. That's a great idea.
No. Well, I think that's awesome. And it would be really, I do want to encourage companies
out there listening to have connections back to Django or just want to get in front of
Django developers for whatever reason to do that. That would be awesome. But it doesn't
cost money to participate as a...
Oh, a hundred percent. No.
Django not, right?
No, no, no. I mean, yeah. Back to what Tushar said at the very start that like he couldn't
believe that you got these amazing quality, like PR reviews from all these experienced
engineers for free. I think open source is this incredible resource where you can get
very usable real life programming experience and yeah, generally for free. So no, we don't,
we don't charge people to be part of this.
That's awesome. And you can participate in very professional type of projects without
having to go through and getting a job at a fame company or whatever. Right. You're
just like, I'm going to be part of this, this get out project. And it looks like they have
continuous integration and code reviews and these experts and so on. It's very cool. It's
pretty magical open source. Tushar, so originally you were a Django not, and now you coming
back to pay it forward a little bit afterwards. So let's start by talking about your experience
going through the program. Like, what were you thinking when you signed up for it? What
was it? And what was the day to day like, and then what did you get out of it?
I think I got pretty excited when I saw this email. So I got an email, I think a few months
back saying that there's a program that Django, program named Django not that is going to
be started. We have, it's a very small program. We are going to be in a teams of three to
four and whether are you interested or not? So it was a complete yes for me that I'm totally
interested and I reverted back to the email. And after a few days I got a selection email
that yeah, you are finally in. I also shared it with some of my juniors who are also trying
to contribute to Django rest frameworks, Django stubs and other projects to like, here's the
GitHub link of the program that is going in a pilot mode. Just go and try out. So I think
one of the other folks named Anwen, she also got in. He's also now joining us as a captain.
And during my phase of the Django not, I think the best part, the best part of this program
that I've talked about a lot of times before as well, the core difference that I saw in
contributing to different projects and joining in as Django not was you were actually meeting
real people that were not just awesome GitHub usernames that you know that you just talk
over technically, but you can really talk with them where they live, how they look and
just get on with what got them started with the project and how, how they do stuff. So
that gave me a kind of inclusive inclusivity, a sense of belonging in the community that
I know people, I know Sarah, I know Sarah voice. I know Rachel. I know a lot of people
now I know Tim and it got me like it gave me some kind of motivation to just be keep
just be involved in respect of like not lose my motivation and just be with the program.
So during the Django not phase, I contributed, I think a few PRS there's one that's on the
accessibility part of Django. I think it's in a work of progress. So it's just getting
in slowly and slowly. There's some docs changes that I've done. And then there's another one
that is just in preview. Another thing that I was getting out of Django not was I know
there are, there is a focused group that is communicating to me about my PRS and how I
can get better reviews. If the reviews are getting delayed, I was getting active response
on like the team is currently busy or maybe there's a holiday season going on. Maybe there's
a new Django major release that's going on. So team is not getting enough time to currently
review it. So I didn't feel isolated or hosted out there, but I knew like there are people
who are seeing this and the whole experience was very good meeting a lot of new people
and it was just fun. So that's how Django not worked for me.
Yeah. Excellent. And you're going on to become a captain for the next cohort, right? So you're
doing the one-on-one mentorship side of things.
Yeah. I wanted to, so I asked when the Django not program was about to be ended, I asked
Sarah, there's another Sarah. So I asked her, is there any way I can still be around? And
like, can this, can this discord group be continued or are we going to just shut it
now as a program? So she told me that, no, we are going to have another cohort and you
can come in as a Django not captain if you want and just meet other people. And I mean,
I was like, why not? Like meeting a lot of new people. And there are a lot of people
from that country that I'm from. So that got me even more excited that there were folks
out there that I didn't knew of and now I know them. So yeah.
That's excellent. Probably you're more likely to go to conferences where there's Django
people meeting and just generally be more part of the community, right? Not just this.
Yeah, I completely agree. I think just the part Django not nailed completely is doing
one-on-ones, video calls. It just gives you some sense of belonging. Yeah. It's great
to see people one-to-one and talk with them. So it's fun.
Yeah. You always notice it that after a DjangoCon, so there's DjangoCon US and DjangoCon Europe
happens pretty much every year. We just had a DjangoCon Africa for the first time, but
we don't have a DjangoCon Asia or a DjangoCon South America. And there are regions that
don't have this opportunity of a conference each year that the community really gets together
and that you meet people. And whenever you see the conference and you see people afterwards,
they're buzzing and everyone's so excited to have gotten together and to really reignite
that kind of community feeling. But it's not accessible to everybody. And it's really nice
for us to try and recreate a little bit. It's not the same as a DjangoCon, of course, but
a little bit of that Django magic. If we can bring a little bit of that experience to a
wider group of people, I think it's really special because I think that's really what
Django is about for me.
Yeah. For every person that is pretty close or pretty accessible to a local meetup or
a regional conference, there are many, many people who work by themselves, live far from
those places, and these types of things serve a really important connection to the community
that way. All right, Sarah, what about time commitments? What's the day to day look like?
12 hours a day? What do you all do?
Yeah, it's constant. Right. So that's one of the things we really try to design also.
We have, as a Django-not, it is self-managed and self-guided. So with the amount of time
commitment we're saying it's maybe four hours a week, but it can really vary. So if you
did two hours or maybe one week, you decided that you're going to spend your whole Saturday
or whatever, it can really be driven by that participant. We're not going to be there with
a whip saying, "Please do more or do less." Actually, the do less would be a concern.
I mean, we do want to make sure that this is sustainable. And if we saw people, I don't
know, constantly working on something without ever taking a break, then that would be something
that we would want the captains and the navigator to go in and check that they're okay and that
they know it's not the end of the world and that they can take a break.
Yeah. That happens to me when I get really just super into something, usually some new
technology, I'll just work and work and take a break. "Wow, I'm hungry. Oh, it's because
I haven't eaten for eight hours. What's going on?" But to me, it's kind of cool to get lost
that way, but you shouldn't set it as an expectation, right?
Yes, exactly. And people work really differently. And if this is sustainable and it works for
you, then that's completely fine. But if it was that somebody said, "Oh, I will probably
finish this ticket," and they said this in their weekly meeting and they thought, "Oh
God, I have to finish it by the next weekly because I said I would," or something like
that, that's not what we expect and that's completely fine. So yeah, maybe it's roughly
four hours a week for Djangonauts. Tushar would be a better person to ask that.
Yeah. You've recently been there. How was it?
When I started Django, when I started with the program, I was quite pumped. I went through
all the trash tickets on the track and made a notion doc of tickets that I wanted to take
a look at and try, but I soon got burned out. Then I think I had a session with Lily. I
told her that I think I'm getting a bit burned out. So she told me that you can relax a bit.
And she told her way of contributing to Django as well. So she told me that she has some
burst of sprints where she contributes. So it's like two PRs in a month and then another
month there's no PR. So it kind of works like that. But yeah, I think there's no pressure
as such for DjangoNauts to work, that they have to make a PR, that they have to make
contributions regularly. So they be part of the program. Everyone can work at their own
pace. And you can also keep communicating with your navigators and your captains to
let them know what's working for you, what's not working for you. And I think it's a pretty
chill environment out there. So you can just figure out what works for you. So for me,
I think burst of sprints worked for me. So if I take a ticket, I make sure that I get
something going on and then I take some break and then I come back to Django and I keep
context switching between different open source projects. So that was how I got myself to
the program.
Excellent. Yeah. If you context switch too frequently, you kind of just never really
get going. You got to be save a little focus and a little deep work on one thing. Sarah,
Tushar mentioned choosing tickets to contribute to. You know, one of the things that's challenging
about projects like Django or any other project that's been around that long with that many
people using it is it's really complicated. And any part that you, you change can have
really wide ranging consequences, right? You don't want to take down Instagram just for
a commit for contribution. So what I'm getting at is it can be hard as a beginner to find
the right issues to work on. How do you navigate that?
It is definitely a challenge and it's also a challenge to answer the question because
it's really dependent on the individual and what are your goals? So if you want to like
achieve the, I got a PR merged into Django batch, for example, that's one potential goal
or perhaps you're going, no, I want to be able to have my name again. Like when I see
when Django 5.1 goes out and at the top there's like the major features and like, I want to
have been a part of that or something like that, then it's kind of like a different dynamic
to it. And so if you were one of the individuals where you don't really mind, you just want
to contribute where you can and maybe start small, for example, just to get something
in, then there are different strategies to go about that. But the best strategy in my
opinion is it's really common in, I would say open source in general, that people come
along and they submit a PR that they've done a good piece of work and it gets a PR review
and maybe there were a couple of things that needed changing and then this person, for
whatever reason, they vanish. And probably because of life or whatever it is, or they
just had enough energy to do that. And that's completely fine. And they didn't care about
it enough to do extra bits or whatever.
It could be they were trying to make Django do something and they decided, you know what,
I'm going to choose some other framework or even some other language. And they just left
and they're not going to come back and polish. Like, cause you ask for reviews for better
documentation and they're like, yeah, no.
Exactly. And for example, and you've hit the nail on the head with that because for Django
to accept anything, it needs tests, it needs docs. And so the code itself could be completely
valid already. It could be like the perfect solution for the issue you're trying to solve.
But if it was missing the tests and the docs, it wouldn't be accepted. And so what happens
is usually what happens is after a certain period of time, the fellows might do a ping
to say, ah, do you still want to work on this or something? And then after another period
of time, they close it because it's gone quiet basically.
And so there are a bunch of these kind of unfinished starting points that you can swoop
in, take that, and you've already got like some code and it gives you good context with
like, cause sometimes people will share a ticket and they go, I don't even know what
file I should be in to start to do this work. Whereas if you took a PR that's got some code,
you know what file, what function, you know what's going on there and you've got a lot
more immediate stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. You're like, this basically works. It needs some polish, maybe a little optimization
and the supporting stuff. Like that's a way smaller project than imagine something you
could add out of thin air. Right?
Exactly. A hundred percent. And then you can take those and you can, and you can be that
person that pushes, pushes it over the line. And you obviously you credit the original
author. You can put them in the, as a coauthor of the commit and thank them. But it's a really
good place to, to, to build from there. Cause then you can slowly get more context about
what does the process of doing a PR to Django even look like? Because you're going to go
through the PR review and you will learn as you do it, you'll learn how the documentation
works. You will learn how the tests work and all that kind of stuff. There's quite a, the
contributing docs are quite extensive and scary and it takes a while to absorb all that
information. And for me personally, I have to do it to like really learn it. So I would
say that's how I would suggest people get started if that was your goal. But, and this
is how I got started, but I would say it makes you like you're so scattered. If I was trying
to gain a really good solid understanding of Django, I have a really weird picture that's
being built that I'm only getting like one pixel at a time in very random spots.
Yeah. Maybe really deep down in the code base. You know, like I disconnected. Yeah.
I suddenly understand that one thing over there that's really random, but then this
other completely unrelated thing over here. And so I'm not gaining like a depth of a technical
understanding of one section as a whole. So if you were someone who wanted to have that
star feature that you wanted to have your name against, then really you should go and
pick a section of Django. So if you went into the ticket tracker called track, you can filter
by components. So an area of Django.
ORM or admin or something like that. Right?
Exactly like this. Exactly like that. And then look at just the tickets for them and
they will be your practical way to get that kind of information. But there's also sometimes
there used to be a conference called Django under the hood and you might find that there
was a talk about forms or something like this. It's maybe relevant and you should build up
your knowledge in like a much longer term perspective that you're focusing on this area.
And there might even be like other packages that are related. So perhaps, for example,
David Smith is also a major contributor to Django and he is coming from like a forms
perspective. And he is also a maintainer of Django crispy forms, which gives him a lot
of extra context with how people use forms in Django. And so he can look at tickets and
use that extra way in that knowledge and his opinions whenever people are discussing things.
So that's a bit more of like a in-depth deep dive approach, but it might not be the quickest
way for you to get your first.
Yeah, you want to get that first early win or whatever. I really like the idea of reviving
a stale PR. That's pretty clever.
This portion of talk Python to me is brought to you by Posit, the makers of Shiny, formerly
R studio and especially shiny for Python. Let me ask you a question. Are you building
awesome things? Of course you are. You're a developer or data scientist. That's what
we do. And you should check out Posit Connect. Posit Connect is a way for you to publish,
share and deploy all the data products that you're building using Python. People ask me
the same question all the time. Michael, I have some cool data science project or notebook
that I built. How do I share it with my users, stakeholders, teammates, I need to learn fast
API or flask or maybe view or react JS. Hold on now. Those are cool technologies, and I'm
sure you'd benefit from them. But maybe stay focused on the data project. Let Posit Connect
handle that side of things. With Posit Connect, you can rapidly and securely deploy the things
you build in Python, streamlit, dash, shiny, bokeh, FastAPI, flask, quarto, ports, dashboards
and API's. Posit Connect supports all of them. And Posit Connect comes with all the bells
and whistles to satisfy it and other enterprise requirements. Make deployment the easiest
step in your workflow with Posit Connect. For a limited time, you can try Posit Connect
for free for three months by going to talkpython.fm/posit. That's talkpython.fm/POSIT. The link is in
your podcast player show notes. Thank you to the team at Posit for supporting Talk Python.
Tim chilling out the audience has a quick question for you, Tushar. Did you ever run
into a wall in the Django code base? How did you handle that? It's very large, very old.
So I imagine parts are hard. I know I get stumped when I try old tickets.
I think one of the tickets, one of the issues that are currently out there was an accessibility
ticket. So basically we want to increase the accessibility of the Django admin. This is
something that I also found it quite interesting because it was a very interesting problem
to build a CI/CD pipeline that will take care of accessibility.
When you say accessibility, are you talking multilingual? Are you talking screen reader?
What are you talking?
Django serves a very large diverse audience and there could be people who are disabled.
There could be people who are colorblind. So you have to take care of putting out a
software that also caters to the needs of those people as well. So accessibility is
different. Yeah. So basically there's a lot of things in that. There's a specification
that's out there to define what is a good accessible software. And you can have a CI/CD
that checks your code, your project with that software, with that specifications.
So I think that was a very open-ended ticket and I faced a very big wall on how to approach
that, what all is needed there. And the thing that I did was I reached out to my navigator
and captains when I was in the program and they actually got me connected to the right
people and the right person to ping. So the track, they assigned the right people in the
track that should have been in the ticket. And I think someone from the Django accessibility
team came in, they gave me weekly updates on what's the current status of this ticket.
What are we planning? They told me that this is going to be a low-chain ticket. It will
spread out over a month because we are planning on how to do this correctly. And I think,
yeah, that's how I was able to get past that. The ticket is still open. There's another
package that has been abandoned, but we are trying to bring it in the Django ecosystem,
I think. So I think Mark is working on that. That's how I basically get past the paywall,
like the wall of getting the contribution.
And I think most of the time, navigators were very helpful because they have a lot of contribution
and they also helped me in pointing to the right location, where should I look to? So
I think one of the times I reached out to Sarah to just know why this specific ticket
was closed. And I was not able to find what went wrong so that this PR was reverted. And
she pointed out to the right, the backtracking PR that you should take a look at. So this
is how I generally just reach out because that's what the program is for.
That highlights a super big advantage or benefit of it, right? A normal contributor can't just
make all these connections or even necessarily know who was involved in the original effort,
why was it shut down? Is it something the project doesn't want or did people abandon
it or none of that is accessible from the less accessible from the outside.
Yes, I completely agree.
So people have been listening, maybe they're pretty excited to be part of it. Do you have
another cohort coming along? When's the next one?
Okay, so we are just starting the first of the year that starts on the 15th of January.
So if you wanted, if this is the first time you've heard about it, unfortunately, you're
not in the industry. And that one's pretty much left the station.
Well, I have a benefit for you that with a little bit of podcasting time travel. So this
probably won't come out for six weeks. So on the main audio, although it's already on
YouTube for folks listening there, so it'll be a little closer to the start of the one
after if there's going to be a third.
Okay, interesting. Thank you for that tip. The best place to check at any point if you
wanted to check if there is, if we're accepting applications for a session is you could go
to the Djangonaut space website and then click on sessions. And when you click on sessions,
you will see exactly right now you can see that the session that we have is if you scroll
a bit further down on the screen, we're sharing the session and you can see the latest information
of the applications when it starts and all the details about that particular session.
And so whenever we agree to do a new session that will appear on our website and there
will be this apply button essentially when applications are open. So in six weeks time
that that might be the case that we are accepting new applications. There is also a interest
form that we have. So again, on there's yes, if you click back on sessions at the top,
there is a join us secret button. Yeah, exactly. Top tip. And here you can send us your email.
And what this just means is we will send you an email as soon as applications open for
the next session. And then you will be the first to know. The other thing is, is we're
on social media. We're on X and Mastodon and LinkedIn. So followers on all of those places.
And we, you will, we will also post there for everything when, when that's.
Yeah, definitely. And I'll put those in the podcast show notes so people can click on
them and find all these things. It also seems you all are on YouTube. What happens over
on YouTube? We are on YouTube and amazingly we, we gained some followers before we've
even really done anything, but this is our plan. So also in session, we have a couple
of guests speakers who come and the Django notes can, they will usually talk about some
topic and they've got some particular experiences that they can share and that you have a little
bit of a Q and a with them. So in the pilot session, both Marish and Natalia, who are
the two Django fellows, they had a session with our Django notes and we record these
sessions and what we want to do is we want to publish these on YouTube to make that available
to everybody because there's quite interesting information that gets shared in these talks
and the whole aim of open sources to, to share information really. So that is the main plan
for the YouTube channel, but we're not there yet, but maybe by the time the podcast is
published, there will be a few weeks.
That's cool. So people can smash the subscribe and crush the bell over there. That'll be
cool. So how many people are in the next cohort? The 20, 24 first cohort.
There is 18 Django notes. So we've really scaled up since the pilot. Yeah. So that's
six teams. Whereas last time we had two teams, so quite a few more.
Yeah. That's cool. What's the Ross team story, right? Like I can imagine say like some kind
of startup accelerator where there's groups and, but sometimes they get together and present
to each other what they're building, what they're doing. Like, is there something like
that where the teams cross pollinate or whatever?
Yeah, we have, you're in the same discord and we have channels that are available to
everybody and we are trying to achieve a community feel and that you can work with other people.
So we do have a, a life channel where people share things about, I don't know that they
went on a run. It's a little bit more around the humanizing individual and all this kind
of stuff. But there are channels which are about works work, I say, but you know, contributing
specifically so on tickets and people can share the work that they're doing and say,
Hey, I want some input on this or does anybody want to work together with me on that? And
there's nothing stopping a Django knot from working with another Django knot who's in
a different team. The team is just a structure to give you a group that is manageable for,
for one human to look after and for you to have a meaningful discussion in a, in a smaller
group.
We get so big, it just becomes a bunch of anonymous people that happen to be in the
same program. Yeah. William out there has an interesting question. As you talk about
adding more than before, what are your plans on scaling this and what do you feel are limiting
factors?
That's a really awesome question, William. So limiting factors are usually getting mentors
who agree to do it at the same time. And it's interesting as to whether we continue to organize
it that it's a session that everyone is there at the same time, or whether we allow it to
no longer be a single cohort and that somebody could be like, right, there's two people who
are available from this state to this state and therefore they can look after a few Django
knots. For example, that could be an option for us to prevent this larger cohort because
it means that we're trying to get a group of, I don't know, eight volunteers who can
all do this time period at the same time. That's a challenge. And we did struggle to,
we got a reasonable amount of people raise their hands to be mentors, but we could always
do with more of them. So if anyone wants to do that, that's, we'd love to hear from you.
So that's another thing that kind of limits that scale. And the other thing is, is we
are learning the challenges as we go. So fortunately we haven't had any issues yet. We have, for
example, a code of conduct and there is a way that people could report something that
we should be aware of. And we haven't had that report yet. Touch wood, it will never
happen, but there's some things that we, it will take a few iterations for us to really
test, stress test our processes and check that this is going to be capable of scale.
But yeah, who knows? We're not there yet.
Well, you know what? One positive feedback loop is people like Tushar who went through
it, but now are supporting its growth, right?
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah. And a question for you from Sarah Shars, I saw multiple or at least one person out
in the audience saying, Hey, I'm going to be in the next cohort. So do you have any
advice as a former Django-Naut for new ones who are about to get started?
Yeah, I think one of the important advices would be to have a lot of fun. You can contribute
to Django, but also you make a lot of good connections. So also like be around in the
Django discord, Django-Nauts discord, interact with people, talk with each other, attend
the sessions, just get to know people, just get to know them a lot. Because the three
weeks, the four, the amount of time that you'll part of the Django-Naut program will be, they'll
focus on getting you left off, but you should plan on making this program more sustainable.
So just try to be around, keep talking with different people and have fun.
Good advice. All right, let's round this out with what are the benefits for the people
who are participating? And I suppose also navigators and captains. One thing I see here
that would be really a bonus is just the edge it gives you in working in web development
and Python as a job opportunity going forward, right? If you say, yes, I know how to do a
database query with the Django ORM, please hire me. That's one thing. It's another to
say, I added that feature that you're excited about. Can we talk about my position? Right?
Okay. Everyone else is off the table, as long as you're a decent fit, right? Like that all
of a sudden just puts you in a different stratosphere, I guess, sticking with the theme. So maybe
you all could speak a little bit to advantages beyond just, I want to contribute to open
source and have the badge or whatever it is.
Yeah, absolutely. I think my first job was, my first job was basically like no interviews
just based on open source profile. The company or the current company that I'm part of also
have some open source products. So I was just involved with that. And the job was just a
simple like one-on-one kinds of conversations on what are the projects or different opposites
contributions.
They're like, Hey, it's a shark. It seems like you're doing this for free. How about
we pay you to do this? Okay. You convinced me.
Yeah. So yeah, that's, that's what actually happened. I think you'll get a lot of, I mean,
contributing to open source, you get a lot of visibility. There are a lot of people that
reach out to you. And I think the best part of it is, as I said it before, you, you just
grow compoundly. There's no stopping when you get started with these stuff. Initially,
there's a barrier that you have to push before you get started. But I think Django will do
that work for you to help you push that initial barrier, get the inertia moving. And then
it's all just a good walk down the path.
Even beyond getting your first job or getting your foot in the door, or if you're with certain
roles, you might come to a point where there's usually this learning curve, right? Where
at the start you learn loads and then it really levels off and you've become efficient and
you kind of know the processes and you've been asked to make yet another API endpoint
for something. And it's kind of fairly, you're not learning so much as you were in the early
days.
Go with me here. What we need is we're going to need a grid of things in the database and
I need you to be able to edit in the, okay. Like the five other ones I just built. Got
it. Okay. That kind of thing. Yeah. Okay.
I also get it that, you know, and companies don't necessarily want you to experiment too
much because experiments are risky and all this kind of stuff. So depending on when you
work, maybe you've got lots of opportunities to, to learn lots of new stuff, but some people
will be in a position where actually they go, Oh, I don't feel like I've learned anything
this year or something like that. And I think open source or contributed to Django particularly,
like there's, it's so big and there's so much there that you can really learn about if you
want to. And completely with no pressure, your own pace and with really friendly people.
And so there is, you know, if you engage in that as a practice, it can also give that
you the joy of programming again, that you can go, you know what, this is a really tough
problem and I can really think about this. And it's not like a problem that's screaming
at me that needs to be like fixed straight away or whatever. But you know, and I think
there's lots of those opportunities in there too.
It's always a struggle as you get to work for some company and they're like, yeah, we're
not changing that. That works. We're not messing with that. We're not ready for Python two
seven yet. We're still on two six. So let's just calm down there. Okay. Sure. I see some
other people asking, is this a discord? This is a private discord for the cohort. It's
not something public that others can participate in.
That's true. There is a Django discord that is public to everybody and I would recommend
joining there. So please do. And a lot of people are in both. And if you dropped into
the contributing, getting started channel or the contributor discussions channel, and
you were to talk about a ticket, it's very likely that I and other Django contributors
are going to engage with you directly. So there's that, but the Django not space discord
is designed for the cohort to give people a little bit of a smaller community feel and
allow them to feel comfortable sharing the pictures of their dogs and things like that,
that when they're very new to this. So yeah, that's how it's working.
Excellent. All right. Let's wrap this up really quick with just one broader thing. Maybe there's
many other communities out there listening. I wish we had a, a not some kind of astronaut
type thing for us. What advice would you give to other open source communities that maybe
want to have this type of thing?
Give it a go. I really try out. I think we're very happy for people to take, I mean, all
of our documentations are on a GitHub. It's all open source. Please take it and make it
your own. You can use different names and keep in touch with us and tell us what works
for you and what you've changed and what's better. And yeah, for us, we wanted to start
off with something quite lightweight and basic. And when we started, for example, we, okay,
we had a name, but no one knew who we were because we just invented it. And for example,
with Tashar, we reached out to some individuals. So in the past, when we'd seen some people
be interested, we, those were the first people we contacted. So you can start really small,
really basic. You don't have to have a launch where you're accepting applications. Cause
when you have applications, you need to figure out what does an application even look like
and then how are you going to review it?
Yeah.
A hundred percent. So start small and then you can build it out in a way that works for
you and see how it goes.
All right. Well, excellent. I think that's probably it for all the time we have today,
but I want to congratulate you both on this really cool community you built and are building.
Final call to action. People are excited about Django Nauts. What do you tell them?
Oh, just followers on our social media and please do apply when we have sessions. We
really, really appreciate all the applications that we receive and mentors are always wanted
and needed. So get in touch. Yeah, please.
Yeah. Of course. Go to the session section and click join us and fill out the form if
you think you might in the future want to be part of it. Right. Indeed. All right. Sarah
Tushar, thank you for being on the show and thanks for sharing your project. It's very
great.
Thank you.
Thanks, Michael.
This has been another episode of Talk Python to Me. Thank you to our sponsors. Be sure
to check out what they're offering. It really helps support the show. It's time to stop
asking relational databases to do more than they were made for and simplify complex data
and models with graphs. Check out the sample FastAPI project and see what Neo4j native
graph database can do for you. Find out more at talkpython.fm/neo4j. This episode is sponsored
by Posit Connect from the makers of Shiny. Publish, share and deploy all of your data
projects that you're creating using Python. Streamlet, Dash, Shiny, Bokeh, FastAPI, Flask,
Porto, Reports, Dashboards and APIs. Posit Connect supports all of them. Try Posit Connect
for free by going to talkpython.fm/posit. Want to level up your Python? We have one
of the largest catalogs of Python video courses over at Talk Python. Our content ranges from
true beginners to deeply advanced topics like memory and async. And best of all, there's
not a subscription in sight. Check it out for yourself at training.talkpython.fm. Be
sure to subscribe to the show. Open your favorite podcast app and search for Python. We should
be right at the top. You can also find the iTunes feed at /iTunes, the Google Play feed
at /play and the direct RSS feed at /rss on talkpython.fm. We're live streaming most
of our recordings these days. If you want to be part of the show and have your comments
featured on the air, be sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel at talkpython.fm/youtube.
This is your host, Michael Kennedy. Thanks so much for listening. I really appreciate
it. Now get out there and write some Python code.
[MUSIC]
you
The fish foods workshop.